# Refactor and update wiki documentation

## Description
[The Decred Wiki](https://wiki.decred.org/) is in need of refactoring
and updating to make it easier for interested outsiders and novice
users to learn about Decred, setup a wallet, perform other basic
actions and to understand how the various network parameters affect
their user experience.

## Requirements
* Familiarity with setting up dcrd, dcrwallet, web wallet, and stake
mining on Linux and Windows
* Ability to write clearly and simply in English
* A decent understanding of the details of how Decred works as a cryptocurrency
* Experience writing documentation is optional

## Scope
In order for Decred to gain more users and wider acceptance, it must
be made more tangible to outsiders and novice users by having simpler
explanations of how Decred works and why they should use it. The
[Bitcoin wiki at bitcoin.it](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Main_Page) is
a good example of the sort of simplified explanations that are needed
for Decred. This is particularly important for Decred's new hybridized
Proof-of-work/Proof-of-Stake system. A rewrite or substantial editing
is required for the landing page and the introduction page.

Setting up a Decred wallet seems to be a difficult process for some
users and there are several common misunderstandings that arise in
that context. Guides must be created for setting up the web wallet and
dcrwallet on Linux and Windows that are simple, minimal, easy to
follow and include screenshots. Based on posts on the forum, it is
clear that people have trouble understanding how wallet seeds work and
how they need to be handled from a backup and security perspective, so
there needs to be content specifically addressing these issues. Some
parts of dcrwallet and the web wallet do not work as expected or
planned, and users must be warned about these limitations.

[The documentation for setting up stake mining](https://wiki.decred.org/Solo_Stake_Mining)
needs to be simplified and made clearer. The solo stake mining section
requires simplification and updating so that relatively novice users
can both understand the requirements of such a setup and get it
working without event. A section on stake mining using a stake pool
needs to be added.

A single page explaining the various network parameters of Decred is
needed. These parameters are encoded
[in the dcrd source code](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/blob/master/chaincfg/params.go)
and include things like block times, the subsidy change interval,
retarget intervals for PoW and PoS, maturity times for tickets and
votes and fee-related limits. Questions about these parameters come up
very regularly, so this needs to be linked from the main page in a
prominent place.

## Estimated Work
1 week FTE or greater (1 FTE = 40 hrs/week)

## Proposal
Proposals should include:

1. Estimated completion time
1. Any proposed additions to the scope described above, along with a
short explanation of why the scope should be changed.
1. Payment Required

## Milestones
Partial payments shall be made at the following milestones:

1. completion of the wallet documentation updates
1. completion of the stake mining documentation updates
1. completion of the network parameter and introductory explanation
documentation

Modification of these proposed milestones is acceptable, and must be
accompanied by sound reasoning in a proposal. Under no circumstances
shall payments be made in advance of work being completed.
